Risk management and security frameworks
You’ve learned that a risk management framework is a set of practices, processes, and
technologies that enable an organization to identify, assess, analyze, and manage risk within an
organization. You’ve also been introduced to some of the most common risk management
frameworks. Frameworks are a tool that organizations can use to achieve a beer defense and
meet compliance regulations. Frameworks can do this by providing security guidelines and
best practices, recommending security controls, or both. Cloud security analysts use these
frameworks to help strengthen their organization’s security posture.
In this reading, you’ll learn more details about cybersecurity frameworks and the management
of security risks. Please note, the following reading should not be considered legal advice.
NIST Cybersecurity Framework (CSF)
The NIST CSF is designed to act as a translation layer to enable communication between
multidisciplinary teams. It consists of three main parts that include:
● The Framework Core
● Proles
● Implementation Tiers
The Framework Core
The framework core contains ve functions: identify, protect, detect, respond, and recover.
These functions are designed to create communication about cybersecurity between
cybersecurity professionals and other organizational stakeholders. The framework core aims
to make cyber risk a part of the overall risk management strategy for an organization. The CSF
does not require specic controls. Instead, each of the framework functions has a series of
categories, subcategories, and references so that organizations can implement the
appropriate controls to improve their cybersecurity posture.

Proles
Framework Proles enable organizations to establish a plan for reducing cybersecurity risk that
meets organizational goals, considers regulatory requirements and industry standards, and
reects risk management priorities. Organizations may choose to have multiple proles based
on business needs.
Framework Proles can be used to describe the current state, or the desired target state, of
specic cybersecurity activities. The Current Prole indicates the cybersecurity outcomes that
are currently being met. The Target Prole indicates the desired cybersecurity risk
management goals. Comparing Proles can reveal gaps that need to be addressed to meet
cybersecurity risk management objectives.
Implementation Tiers
Tiers describe the degree to which an organization’s cybersecurity risk management practices
demonstrate the controls dened in the Framework. Each tier increases in thoroughness.
Tier 1 refers to “partial” demonstration of controls
Tier 2 refers to “risk Informed” demonstration of controls
Tier 3 refers to “repeatable” demonstration of controls
Tier 4 is Adaptive
Organizations should determine a desired Tier based on organizational goals, cybersecurity
risk levels, and feasibility.

ISO 27001
The ISO 27001 includes 11 sections, called clauses, numbered “0” through “10”, and an “Annex
A” that lists specic security controls. Clauses 4 through 10 are considered “mandatory.” An
organization must meet the requirements of the mandatory sections to be ISO 27001
compliant.
Clauses 0-3 provide general information about the ISO 27001 standard and include:
● Clause 0: Introduction: Introduces the standard and its purpose.
● Clause 1: Scope: Provides a very high-level view of the information security
management system and risk treatment requirements specied within the rest of the
standard.
● Clause 2: Normative references: Explains the relationship between ISO 27000 and
27001 standards.
● Clause 3: Terms and denitions: Covers the terminology that is used within the
standard.
Clauses 4-10 are mandatory requirements for ISO 27001 certication:
● Clause 4: Context of the organization: Requires documentation that lists external and
internal stakeholders, regulatory environments, client lists, competitors, and other
industry standards. You must set the boundaries of your system and the controls you
will apply.
● Clause 5: Leadership: ISO 27001 compliance requires full support from top
management.
● Clause 6: Planning: Based on these risks and opportunities, objectives need to be
established, measured and monitored. An organization will need to dene and
document its criteria for assessing and analyzing risks, and describe how risks will be
addressed.
● Clause 7: Support: This clause addresses the resources needed to successfully
implement and support an information management system.
● Clause 8: Operation: In the operation clause, an organization will put the plans from
clause 6 into action. During this clause the assessments are actually performed and
documented.
● Clause 9: Performance evaluation: This clause includes requirements for how to monitor
and evaluate the policies, procedures, and controls. It also requires regular internal
audits and management reviews.
● Clause 10: Improvement: This clause includes creating a process to log
recommendations for improvement that will help an organization eliminate problems,

improve services, and take necessary actions.
Cloud Security Alliance Cloud Controls Matrix (CSA CCM)
The CSA CCM includes 197 control objectives within 17 domains covering key aspects of cloud
technology. The controls framework is a common standard for cloud security assurance and
compliance.
It consists of a spreadsheet that lists common frameworks and regulations organizations
would need to comply with. Each control maps to multiple industry-accepted security
standards, regulations, and frameworks. This means that fullling the CCM controls also fullls
requirements for many other standards and regulations.
Google Security and Resilience Framework (SRF)
The Google SRF is a foundational risk framework that helps secure adoption of Google Cloud
by establishing a set of controls and mapping them to Google security solutions. It provides
response and recovery capabilities to ensure the exibility of workloads running on the Google
Cloud plaorm. The RMF is based on the core functions of NIST: identify, protect, detect,
respond, and recover.
Center for Internet Security Controls Framework
The framework includes CIS best practices based on their experience defending organizations
against a broad set of cyber threats. The CIS Critical Security Controls are a prescriptive,
prioritized, and simplied set of best practices used to strengthen cybersecurity posture. The
CIS controls framework helps organizations beer identify and assess threats and rapidly
adapt to new advanced threats.
Pro tip: Check out the NIST CSF proles for more industry or subject specic guidance.
Key takeaways
There are many frameworks available for risk management and compliance. As a cloud
security professional, it’s important for you to know the most common and trusted
frameworks. Being familiar with dierent frameworks and their functions will help you to
choose the best controls for the needs of your organization.
Resources for more information
Review these resources to learn more about risk management and security frameworks:
● https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/blog/2020/10/16/what-is-the-cloud-controls-matrix-ccm/ - What is the Cloud Security Control Matrix to learn more about the CSA CCM.
● https://cloud.google.com/solutions/security-and-resilience - Google security and resilience framework to explore more about Google security and
frameworks.