You probably wouldn't
share personal details about yourself with just anyone, especially with threat actors. As a Cloud security
professional, part of your job is to
protect personal information from being accessed by
unauthorized users. In this video, we'll discuss data protection and
privacy and how to prevent data from being used
in ways that can cause a security incident
like a data breach. It's important to call
out our discussion in this course should not be
considered legal advice. Data privacy focuses on
an individual's rights to be in control of how and when their data is accessed and used. It includes the rights to be accurately represented
by the information, to be informed about its use, to refuse its use for
secondary purposes, and to erase or remove
information when they choose. Personal information
includes things like one's name, location, contact information, or online
or real world behavior. Just like you may exclude people from a private
conversation, a lot of online users
want to control or prevent certain types of personal data
collection and use. For example, imagine
that you are using an app to make an
appointment on your smartphone. If you did not disable location services
on your smartphone, the app might ask
for your location to suggest the closest office to
schedule your appointment. You can choose to
decline the app's access to your exact location. This is an example
of data privacy. You can also decline
to accept cookies when visiting a website
as another example. When you decline or
turn off cookies, you're refusing to share
personal information about how you interact
with websites. There are laws and regulations
that have been put into place to protect the
privacy rights of users. Examples of these laws include general data protection
regulations or GDPR in Europe, and the California Consumer
Privacy Rights Act, also known as CPRA, GDPR and CPRA put laws
in place that grant consumers as data subjects certain rights regarding the use of their personal information. An organization must
take measures to protect the data that they gather to meet data privacy obligations. This is called data protection. Data protection also covers
protection of other data, like intellectual
property or IP. IP might include anything
from a musical composition to an architectural design
that the creator may copyright,
trademark, et cetera. Data protection helps
enforce policies and regulations, prevent
unauthorized access, focus on keeping information
safe from attackers, ensure that data
is protected from unauthorized
intervention and access, safeguard, collected data, and is closely tied
to security controls. An organization can protect data by putting controls
in place that prevent unauthorized access and keep data and information
safe from attackers. To protect data, an organization could
ensure that they have good authorization
and access control for the data and the systems
that house the data, and then they could use
encryption key to conceal data. They would also want
to make sure that good key management
policies are in place. In this video, you learned
that data protection and privacy are important
parts of risk management. You also learned that there
are laws and regulations that ensure data protection and
the right to data privacy. Staying up to date
with data privacy and protection standards
will help you and your organization
to mitigate risk, meet compliance standards
and protect users. Remember, when a user's
privacy is safe, they can safely go
about their business.