Imagine you're going rock climbing. Your plan is to have fun, but
you also know there are risks involved. To keep yourself safe, you pack all
the safety gear you can, like a harness, a helmet, ropes, and hooks. Just as in climbing, risk management
also needs proper safety measures. As a cloud security professional,
you'll be responsible for protecting vulnerable assets. This means you'll need
to understand risk and know how to reduce it to meet your
security and compliance standards. In this video, we'll explore risk and
how it relates to compliance. First, let's review risk. Risk is the measure of how much a threat
impacts the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of an asset. Common examples of risk include data loss,
data leakage, and data corruption. Data loss happens when data is deleted
without authorization due to either a mistake by an authorized user or
an intentional action by a threat actor, resulting in a breach in
availability of data. Data leakage happens when sensitive
data is handled improperly or when threat actors,
entities imposing a threat, get access, resulting in a breach of confidentiality
and sharing with other unauthorized users. And data corruption happens when data is
either changed because of an unauthorized user or a system malfunction,
resulting in a breach of quality or trustworthiness of data. Now that we reviewed risk, let's
explore its relationship with threat, vulnerability, likelihood, and impact. Remember, a threat is any situation or circumstance that can
negatively impact assets. Vulnerabilities are weaknesses that
can be exploited by threat actors. Likelihood is the probability that
a vulnerability will be exploited by a threat actor and includes
the extent of the impact of the threat. For example, if an organization has
a poorly configured access management system, a lot of employees may have
access to more sensitive corporate data than they need to do their job. This means there's a likelihood that
a threat actor could compromise employees' accounts, which could lead
to a major data breach. One method of determining the level
of risk is to rank the likelihood of an attack and
the severity of the impact or outcome. This can help to determine if the level
of risk is low, medium, or high. Analyzing risks, their likelihood and impact will help you
decide the best controls to put in place. As a cloud security professional,
youll be responsible for reducing risk to an acceptable
level called the risk appetite for your organizations cloud assets. The risk appetite is the amount of risk
an organization is willing to take and still meet organizational needs. It could also be described as the maximum
amount of residual risk an organization will accept after controls and
other measures have been put in place. Determining the level of risk will help
you to determine the risk appetite. So how does risk relate to compliance? Compliance certification is proof that you
meet established industry regulations and standards to protect your
organization from risks. Compliance proves that an organization
is following the rules. A lot of compliance certifications are
renewed regularly or whenever a new law or regulation version is published, or when security controls of a system
have changed significantly. Compliance certifications focus on
gathering evidence that security controls are in place at or over a specific time
period specified in the audit protocol. Meeting compliance requirements is
a risk mitigation activity, but risk management doesn't
stop at compliance alone. To more fully handle risk management, a security team needs to also assess
security systems for vulnerability. Often, security is an ongoing, real time
evaluation of the threat landscape, and the state of control is
to address those threats. Security also includes vulnerability
scanning control, health monitoring, and log reviews. Now that you know more about
the relationship between risks, threats, vulnerabilities, likelihood, and impact, you can be better prepared to
protect vulnerable assets. Just like you would plan to protect
yourself if you were to go on a rock climbing trip. Planning for potential risk factors is
a valuable skill that will help you be a more effective cloud
security professional.