>> Hi, I'm Chris. >> Hi, I'm Kevin. >> And congratulations on
making it through this course. Now we're going to give you a little bit
of a sneak peek on what you can expect for an interview that will cover some
of the questions from this course. >> We hope this will help you know
what to expect in your next interview. >> All right, Kevin, so,
first question for you. What interests you in
a career in cloud security? >> Chris, my interest in cloud
security really comes down to how pervasive cloud security
is in our day to day lives. Everything from streaming movies and video games pretty much runs
on the cloud these days. It's how technology is evolving to
become more efficient and accessible and equitable for people around the world. With it becoming more accessible and
services running on it, such as banking and family photos and so forth,
protecting that information is paramount. So my interest in security for the cloud
really comes down to making sure that all that information stays protected and safe. >> Well, imagine you would need to
explain the main differences between on premise and
cloud computing to a business leader. How would you go about it? >> If I was talking to a business leader
and trying to describe the differences between on premise computing and
cloud computing, first, I would try to understand how much they understand about
cloud computing and on premise computing. How technical is this business leader? Have they worked in it, or
have they worked, you know, from more of a business perspective, where they
sort of learned how businesses operate? Or have they actually worked in
a server room where they actually built data centers and built servers and
deployed computer racks? And depending on where their
technical foundation lay, then I would talk to them about how
really the biggest differences are. With cloud computing,
you can save costs and share responsibilities
with a cloud provider. So with on premise computing,
they need to hire specialized staff, educate that staff, help them with on the
job training and possibly cross training. But with cloud computing, they can rely
on a third party that will offload most of those responsibilities for them and
help them just run the business. >> Imagine a scenario where you're asked
to implement infrastructure for a project. What are the benefits of using
infrastructure as code in this type of a situation? >> When asked to implement infrastructure
as a code, really, it's more efficient. It works in ways that can be automated. So there are various vendors and
various products that allow you to write what we call playbooks
in a human readable fashion. Think of it as a recipe, right? Think of it as a recipe book, and
you can sort of have this recipe book that you can pass on to people
who are working in kitchen, and they will all follow this recipe and
do everything exactly as it is. This is really what helps cloud computing
become efficient, because if you, as a client, start with a small business,
let's say you have three employees, and you'd like to provide them
something as simple as email service. What you might do in traditionally
is maybe deploy that on their individual laptops and
go in there and configure them and modify different parameters and
do this for each person. And in a small business, that maybe can
be done pretty quickly, but your business starts to grow to 50 employees, or
100 employees, or 1000 employees, or big companies like Google, you have
400,000 employees across the world. You can't go to each person's computer and
start modifying these settings and parameters. So what you do is you deploy
infrastructure as code, and you write these playbooks where you
send rules to all these computers, and they automatically build out and deploy
everything the same way across the world. >> All right, well, how would using
a Cloud Shell support you and your role as an entry level
cloud security analyst? >> Cloud Shell would support my role
as a entry level cloud security analyst by giving me access to
generally what we would define as a shell like or terminal shell
like virtual machine interface that allows me to interact
with the cloud environment. This could be something like an integrated
development environment, an IDE, where I can run and execute code. And the beauty of an IDE is, it'll allow me to have things like color
coding of various aspects of the code. Functions will be highlighted one color, various variables will be
highlighted different colors. And it really enables sort
of this automation and ease of access and
modifying of system files and cloud parameters through
a shell like environment. >> So what is cloud firewall? What should a cloud cybersecurity
analyst consider when defining firewall rules on a Google Cloud? >> A cloud firewall can be
an application or hardware, and it's essentially a resource
that allows you to control traffic that comes in and
out of a cloud environment. It can allow you to create firewall rules. You can do things like filter out or block port 22 if you don't want SSH
access into the cloud environment. It also allows you to sort
of create rules that you can distribute to many different computers or many different services
running on a cloud platform. Earlier, we alluded to sort
of infrastructure as code and the ease by which you can
deploy playbooks and rules, as opposed to doing them
manually at each endpoint. But with a cloud firewall,
you can automate these tasks. You can make them all in
a central resource, and then you can distribute
them to remote resources. >> Thank you. >> Thank you for having me. >> In this scenario, Kevin was able to demonstrate how to talk
through his answers to show his thinking. By sharing your thought process, you're
able to demonstrate what you know and how you solve problems. Problem solving is one of the main
things that hiring managers are going to be looking for in an interview. Well, that's it for now. Stay tuned for some more interview tips.